=== PURPOSE ===
Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer

=== INDICATIONS AND USAGE ===
Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache muscular aches backache minor pain of arthritis the common cold toothache premenstrual and menstrual cramps temporarily reduces fever

=== DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ===
Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 tablets, every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours, unless directe by a doctor do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours do not use for more than 5 days unless directed by a doctor children under 6 years ask a doctor

=== WARNINGS ===
Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. The maximum daily dose of this product is 10 tablets (3,250 mg) in 24 hours for adults or 5 tablets (1,625 mg) in 24 hours for children. Severe liver damage may occur if adult takes more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if the user has liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the user is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days in adults pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days in children under 12 years fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of the reach of children. Overdose warning: In the case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms.