=== INDICATIONS AND USAGE ===
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropinirole tablets are a non-ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD) and moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS). ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) 1.1 Parkinson's Disease Ropinirole tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. 1.2 Restless Legs Syndrome Ropinirole tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS).

=== DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ===
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Ropinirole tablets can be taken with or without food. ( 2.1 ) • Retitration of ropinirole tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted. ( 2.1 ) Parkinson’s Disease: • The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg taken three times daily; titrate to a maximum daily dose of 24 mg. ( 2.2 ) • Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. ( 2.2 ) Restless Legs Syndrome: • The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg once daily, 1 to 3 hours before bedtime, titrate to a maximum recommended dose of 4 mg daily. ( 2.3 ) • Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 3 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations Ropinirole tablets can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole tablets has occurred, retitration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson's Disease The recommended starting dose of ropinirole tablets for Parkinson’s disease is 0.25 mg 3 times daily. Based on individual patient therapeutic response and tolerability, if necessary, the dose should then be titrated with weekly increments as described in Table 1. After Week 4, if necessary, the daily dose may be increased by 1.5 mg/day on a weekly basis up to a dose of 9 mg/day, and then by up to 3 mg/day weekly up to a maximum recommended total daily dose of 24 mg/day (8 mg 3 times daily). Doses greater than 24 mg/day have not been tested in clinical trials. Table 1. Ascending-Dose Schedule of Ropinirole Tablets for Parkinson’s Disease Week Dosage Total Daily Dose 1 0.25 mg 3 times daily 0.75 mg 2 0.5 mg 3 times daily 1.5 mg 3 0.75 mg 3 times daily 2.25 mg 4 1 mg 3 times daily 3 mg Ropinirole tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7-day period in patients with Parkinson’s disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . The frequency of administration should be reduced from 3 times daily to twice daily for 4 days. For the remaining 3 days, the frequency should be reduced to once daily prior to complete withdrawal of ropinirole tablets. Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL/min). The recommended initial dose of ropinirole for patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 0.25 mg 3 times a day. Further dose escalations should be based on tolerability and need for efficacy. The recommended maximum total daily dose is 18 mg/day in patients receiving regular dialysis. Supplemental doses after dialysis are not required. The use of ropinirole tablets in patients with severe renal impairment without regular dialysis has not been studied. 2.3 Dosing for Restless Legs Syndrome The recommended adult starting dose for RLS is 0.25 mg once daily 1 to 3 hours before bedtime. After 2 days, if necessary, the dose can be increased to 0.5 mg once daily, and to 1 mg once daily at the end of the first week of dosing, then as shown in Table 2 as needed to achieve efficacy. Titration should be based on individual patient therapeutic response and tolerability, up to a maximum recommended dose of 4 mg daily. For RLS, the safety and effectiveness of doses greater than 4 mg once daily have not been established. Table 2. Dose Titration Schedule of Ropinirole Tablets for Restless Legs Syndrome Day/Week Dose to be taken once daily 1 to 3 hours before bedtime Days 1 and 2 0.25 mg Days 3 to 7 0.5 mg Week 2 1 mg Week 3 1.5 mg Week 4 2 mg Week 5 2.5 mg Week 6 3 mg Week 7 4 mg When discontinuing ropinirole tablets in patients with RLS, gradual reduction of the daily dose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 , 5.9 )]. Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL/min). The recommended initial dose of ropinirole for patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 0.25 mg once daily. Further dose escalations should be based on tolerability and need for efficacy. The recommended maximum total daily dose is 3 mg/day in patients receiving regular dialysis. Supplemental doses after dialysis are not required. The use of ropinirole tablets in patients with severe renal impairment without regular dialysis has not been studied.

=== CONTRAINDICATIONS ===
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ropinirole tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have a hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients. History of hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients. ()

=== ADVERSE REACTIONS ===
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the label: • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( ) ] • Falling asleep during activities of daily living and somnolence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] • Syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] • Hypotension/orthostatic hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] • Hallucinations/psychotic-like behavior [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] • Dyskinesia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] • Impulse control/compulsive behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] • Withdrawal-emergent hyperpyrexia and confusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ] • Withdrawal Symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8) ] • Augmentation and early-morning rebound in RLS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9) ] • Fibrotic complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) ] • Retinal pathology [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) ] Most common adverse reactions (incidence with ropinirole at least 5% greater than placebo) in the respective indications were: • Early PD: Nausea, somnolence, dizziness, syncope, asthenic condition, viral infection, leg edema, vomiting, and dyspepsia. ( 6.1 ) • Advanced PD: Dyskinesia, somnolence, nausea, dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, sweating, and headache. ( 6.1 ) • RLS: Nausea, vomiting, somnolence, dizziness, and asthenic condition. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA at 1 (888) 721-7115 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug (or of another development program of a different formulation of the same drug) and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Parkinson's Disease During the premarketing development of ropinirole, patients received ropinirole either without L-dopa (early Parkinson’s disease trials) or as concomitant therapy with L-dopa (advanced Parkinson’s disease trials). Because these 2 populations may have differential risks for various adverse reactions, this section will in general present adverse reaction data for these 2 populations separately. Early Parkinson’s Disease (without L-dopa): In the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in patients with early-stage Parkinson’s disease, the most commonly observed adverse reactions in patients treated with ropinirole (incidence at least 5% greater than placebo) were nausea, somnolence, dizziness, syncope, asthenic condition (i.e., asthenia, fatigue, and/or malaise), viral infection, leg edema, vomiting, and dyspepsia. Approximately 24% of patients treated with ropinirole who participated in the double-blind, placebo-controlled early Parkinson’s disease (without L-dopa) trials discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions compared with 13% of patients who received placebo. The most common adverse reactions in patients treated with ropinirole (incidence at least 2% greater than placebo) of sufficient severity to cause discontinuation were nausea and dizziness. Table 3 lists treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2% of patients with early Parkinson’s disease (without L-dopa) treated with ropinirole participating in the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials and were numerically more common than the incidence for placebo-treated patients. In these trials, either ropinirole or placebo was used as early therapy (i.e., without L-dopa). Table 3. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reaction Incidence in Double-blind, Placebo-Controlled Early Parkinson’s Disease (without L-dopa) Trials (Events ≥2% of Patients Treated with Ropinirole and Numerically More Frequent than the Placebo Group) a Body System/Adverse Reaction Ropinirole (n = 157) (%) Placebo (n = 147) (%) Autonomic nervous system Flushing 3 1 Dry mouth 5 3 Increased sweating 6 4 Body as a whole Asthenic condition b 16 5 Chest pain 4 2 Dependent edema 6 3 Leg edema 7 1 Pain 8 4 Cardiovascular general Hypertension 5 3 Hypotension 2 0 Orthostatic symptoms 6 5 Syncope 12 1 Central/peripheral nervous system Dizziness 40 22 Hyperkinesia 2 1 Hypesthesia 4 2 Vertigo 2 0 Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain 6 3 Anorexia 4 1 Dyspepsia 10 5 Flatulence 3 1 Nausea 60 22 Vomiting 12 7 Heart rate/rhythm Extrasystoles 2 1 Atrial fibrillation 2 0 Palpitation 3 2 Tachycardia 2 0 Metabolic/nutritional Increased alkaline phosphatase 3 1 Psychiatric Amnesia 3 1 Impaired concentration 2 0 Confusion 5 1 Hallucination 5 1 Somnolence 40 6 Yawning 3 0 Reproductive male Impotence 3 1 Resistance mechanism Viral infection 11 3 Respiratory Bronchitis 3 1 Dyspnea 3 0 Pharyngitis 6 4 Rhinitis 4 3 Sinusitis 4 3 Urinary Urinary tract infection 5 4 Vascular extracardiac Peripheral ischemia 3 0 Vision Eye abnormality 3 1 Abnormal vision 6 3 Xerophthalmia 2 0 a Patients may have reported multiple adverse reactions during the trial or at discontinuation; thus, patients may be included in more than one category. b Asthenic condition (i.e., asthenia, fatigue, and/or malaise). Advanced Parkinson’s Disease (with L-dopa): In the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in patients with advanced-stage Parkinson’s disease, the most commonly observed adverse reactions in patients treated with ropinirole (incidence at least 5% greater than placebo) were dyskinesia, somnolence, nausea, dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, increased sweating, and headache. Approximately 24% of patients who received ropinirole in the double-blind, placebo-controlled advanced Parkinson’s disease (with L-dopa) trials discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions compared with 18% of patients who received placebo. The most common adverse reaction in patients treated with ropinirole (incidence at least 2% greater than placebo) of sufficient severity to cause discontinuation was dizziness. Table 4 lists treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2% of patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease (with L-dopa) treated with ropinirole who participated in the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials and were numerically more common than the incidence for placebo-treated patients. In these trials, either ropinirole or placebo was used as an adjunct to L-dopa. Table 4. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reaction Incidence in Double-blind, Placebo-Controlled Advanced Parkinson’s Disease (with L-dopa) Trials (Events ≥2% of Patients Treated with Ropinirole and Numerically More Frequent than the Placebo Group) a Body System/Adverse Reaction Ropinirole (n = 208) (%) Placebo (n = 120) (%) Autonomic nervous system Dry mouth 5 1 Increased sweating 7 2 Body as a whole Increased drug level 7 3 Pain 5 3 Cardiovascular general Hypotension 2 1 Syncope 3 2 Central/peripheral nervous system Dizziness 26 16 Dyskinesia 34 13 Falls 10 7 Headache 17 12 Hypokinesia 5 4 Paresis 3 0 Paresthesia 5 3 Tremor 6 3 Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain 9 8 Constipation 6 3 Diarrhea 5 3 Dysphagia 2 1 Flatulence 2 1 Nausea 30 18 Increased saliva 2 1 Vomiting 7 4 Metabolic/nutritional Weight decrease 2 1 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 7 5 Arthritis 3 1 Psychiatric Amnesia 5 1 Anxiety 6 3 Confusion 9 2 Abnormal dreaming 3 2 Hallucination 10 4 Nervousness 5 3 Somnolence 20 8 Red blood cell Anemia 2 0 Resistance mechanism Upper respiratory tract infection 9 8 Respiratory Dyspnea 3 2 Urinary Pyuria 2 1 Urinary incontinence 2 1 Urinary tract infection 6 3 Vision Diplopia 2 1 a Patients may have reported multiple adverse reactions during the trial or at discontinuation; thus, patients may be included in more than one category. Restless Legs Syndrome In the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in patients with RLS, the most commonly observed adverse reactions in patients treated with ropinirole (incidence at least 5% greater than placebo) were nausea, vomiting, somnolence, dizziness, and asthenic condition (i.e., asthenia, fatigue, and/or malaise). Approximately 5% of patients treated with ropinirole who participated in the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in the treatment of RLS discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions compared with 4% of patients who received placebo. The most common adverse reaction in patients treated with ropinirole (incidence at least 2% greater than placebo) of sufficient severity to cause discontinuation was nausea. Table 5 lists treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2% of patients with RLS treated with ropinirole participating in the 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials and were numerically more common than the incidence for placebo-treated patients. Table 5. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reaction Incidence in Double-blind, Placebo-Controlled Restless Legs Syndrome Trials (Events ≥2% of Patients Treated with Ropinirole and Numerically More Frequent than the Placebo Group) a Body System/Adverse Reaction Ropinirole (n = 496) (%) Placebo (n = 500) (%) Ear and labyrinth Vertigo 2 1 Gastrointestinal Nausea 40 8 Vomiting 11 2 Diarrhea 5 3 Dyspepsia 4 3 Dry mouth 3 2 Abdominal pain upper 3 1 General disorders and administration site conditions Asthenic condition b 9 4 Edema peripheral 2 1 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 9 8 Influenza 3 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue Arthralgia 4 3 Muscle cramps 3 2 Pain in extremity 3 2 Nervous system Somnolence 12 6 Dizziness 11 5 Paresthesia 3 1 Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal Cough 3 2 Nasal congestion 2 1 Skin and subcutaneous tissue Hyperhidrosis 3 1 a Patients may have reported multiple adverse reactions during the trial or at discontinuation; thus, patients may be included in more than one category. b Asthenic condition (i.e., asthenia, fatigue, and/or malaise). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ropinirole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Withdrawal symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]

=== DRUG INTERACTIONS ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2: May alter the clearance of ropinirole; dose adjustment of ropinirole may be required. ( 7.1 , 12.3) • Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Starting or stopping HRT may require dose adjustment of ropinirole. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) • Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics, metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 1A2 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolism studies showed that cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole. There is thus the potential for inducers or inhibitors of this enzyme to alter the clearance of ropinirole. Therefore, if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inducer or inhibitor of CYP1A2 is stopped or started during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of the dose of ropinirole may be required. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin, an inhibitor of CYP1A2, increases the AUC and C max of ropinirole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking hormone replacement therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Estrogens Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that higher doses of estrogens (usually associated with hormone replacement therapy) reduced the clearance of ropinirole. Starting or stopping may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Dopamine Antagonists Because ropinirole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics (e.g., phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide may reduce the efficacy of ropinirole.
Drug Interaction Studies Digoxin: Coadministration of ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) with digoxin (0.125 to 0.25 mg once daily) did not alter the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin in 10 patients. Theophylline: Administration of theophylline (300 mg twice daily), a substrate of CYP1A2, did not alter the steady-state pharmacokinetics of ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) in 12 patients with Parkinson’s disease. Ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of theophylline (5 mg/kg intravenously) in 12 patients with Parkinson’s disease. Ciprofloxacin: Coadministration of ciprofloxacin (500 mg twice daily), an inhibitor of CYP1A2, with ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) increased ropinirole AUC by 84% on average and C max by 60% (n = 12 patients). Estrogens: Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that estrogens (mainly ethinylestradiol: intake 0.6 to 3 mg over 4-month to 23-year period) reduced the oral clearance of ropinirole by 36% in 16 patients. L-dopa : Coadministration of carbidopa + L-dopa (10/100 mg twice daily) with ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) had no effect on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of ropinirole (n = 28 patients). Oral administration of ropinirole 2 mg 3 times daily increased mean steady-state C max of L-dopa by 20%, but its AUC was unaffected (n = 23 patients). Commonly Administered Drugs: Population analysis showed that commonly administered drugs (e.g., selegiline, amantadine, tricyclic antidepressants, benzodiazepines, ibuprofen, thiazides, antihistamines, anticholinergics) did not affect the clearance of ropinirole. An in vitro study indicates that ropinirole is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein. Ropinirole and its circulating metabolites do not inhibit or induce P450 enzymes; therefore, ropinirole is unlikely to affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs by a P450 mechanism.

=== HOW SUPPLIED ===
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Each circular, beveled edged, biconvex film-coated tablet contains ropinirole hydrochloride, USP equivalent to the labeled amount of ropinirole as follows: • 2 mg: pale pink to pink tablets with ‘2’ over ‘56’ debossed on one side and ‘G’ on the other side NDC 68788-4138-3 Bottles of 30 with child-resistant closure Storage Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light and moisture. Close container tightly after each use.