=== INDICATIONS AND USAGE ===
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dicyclomine hydrochloride oral solution is indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome.

=== DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ===
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE ADJUSTED TO INDIVIDUAL PATIENT NEEDS. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .) Adults-Oral The only oral dose clearly shown to be effective is 160 mg per day (in 4 equally divided doses). Since this dose is associated with a significant incidence of side effects, it is prudent to begin with 80 mg per day (in 4 equally divided doses). Depending upon the patient’s response during the first week of therapy, the dose should be increased to 160 mg per day unless side effects limit dosage escalation. If efficacy is not achieved within 2 weeks or side effects require doses below 80 mg per day, the drug should be discontinued. Documented safety data are not available for doses above 80 mg daily for periods longer than 2 weeks. Elderly In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. (See PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use )

=== WARNINGS ===
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration can occur with drug use (fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating). If symptoms occur, the drug should be discontinued and supportive measures instituted. Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy. In this instance, treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. Dicyclomine hydrochloride oral solution may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or performing hazardous work while taking this drug. Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs. CNS signs and symptoms include confusion, disorientation, short-term memory loss, hallucinations, dysarthria, ataxia, coma, euphoria, decreased anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, agitation and mannerisms, and inappropriate affect. These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 24 hours after discontinuation of the drug. There are reports that administration of dicyclomine hydrochloride oral soution to infants has been followed by serious respiratory symptoms (dyspnea, shortness of breath, breathlessness, respiratory collapse, apnea, asphyxia), seizures, syncope, pulse rate fluctuations, muscular hypotonia, and coma. Death has been reported. No causal relationship between these effects observed in infants and dicyclomine administration has been established. DICYCLOMINE HYDROCHLORIDE ORAL SOLUTION IS CONTRAINDICATED IN INFANTS LESS THAN 6 MONTHS OF AGE AND IN NURSING MOTHERS. (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Nursing Mothers Nursing Mothers and Pediatric Use Pediatric Use ). Safety and efficacy of dicyclomine hydrochloride in pediatric patients have not been established.

=== CONTRAINDICATIONS ===
CONTRAINDICATIONS Obstructive uropathy Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract Severe ulcerative colitis (see PRECAUTIONS ) Reflux esophagitis Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage Glaucoma Myasthenia gravis Evidence of prior hypersensitivity to dicyclomine hydrochloride or other ingredients in this formulation Infants less than 6 months of age (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients .) Nursing Mothers (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients .)

=== ADVERSE REACTIONS ===
ADVERSE REACTIONS Controlled clinical trials have provided frequency information for reported adverse effects of dicyclomine hydrochloride listed in a decreasing order of frequency. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .) Not all of the following adverse reactions have been reported with dicyclomine hydrochloride. Adverse reactions are included here that have been reported for pharmacologically similar drugs with anticholinergic/antispasmodic action. Gastrointestinal : dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, constipation, bloated feeling, abdominal pain, taste loss, anorexia. Central Nervous System : dizziness, lightheadedness, tingling, headache, drowsiness, weakness, nervousness, numbness, mental confusion and/or excitement (especially in elderly persons), dyskinesia, lethargy, syncope, speech disturbance, insomnia. Ophthalmologic: blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis, cycloplegia, increased ocular tension Dermatologic/Allergic: rash, urticaria, itching, and other dermal manifestations; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylaxis. Genitourinary: urinary hesitancy, urinary retention Cardiovascular: tachycardia. palpitations Respiratory: Dyspnea, apnea, asphyxia (see WARNINGS ) Other: decreased sweating, nasal stuffiness or congestion, sneezing, throat congestion, impotence, suppression of lactation (see PRECAUTIONS : Nursing Mothers )

=== DRUG INTERACTIONS ===
Drug Interactions The following agents may increase certain actions or side effects of anticholinergic drugs: amantadine, antiarrhythmic agents of Class I (e.g., quinidine), antihistamines, antipsychotic agents (e.g., phenothiazines), benzodiazepines, MAO inhibitors, narcotic analgesics (e.g., meperidine), nitrates and nitrites, sympathomimetic agents, tricyclic antidepressants, and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. Anticholinergic drugs in the presence of increased intraocular pressure may be hazardous when taken concurrently with agents such as corticosteroids. (See also CONTRAINDICATIONS .) Anticholinergic agents may affect gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs, such as slowly dissolving dosage forms of digoxin; increased serum digoxin concentrations may result. Anticholinergic drugs may antagonize the effects of drugs that alter gastrointestinal motility, such as metoclopramide. Because antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents, simultaneous use of these drugs should be avoided. The inhibiting effects of anticholinergic drugs on gastric hydrochloric acid secretion are antagonized by agents used to treat achlorhydria and those used to test gastric secretion.

=== HOW SUPPLIED ===
HOW SUPPLIED Dicyclomine hydrochloride oral solution is supplied as a pinkish orange, tropical fruit punch-flavored syrup. NDC 0179-0173-80------ 10ml unit dose cups in Box of 12 Cups. STORAGE Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight container with a child-resistant closure.