=== INDICATIONS AND USAGE ===
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FLOVENT DISKUS is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients aged 4 years and older. Important Limitation of Use FLOVENT DISKUS is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. FLOVENT DISKUS is an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) indicated for: • Maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients aged 4 years and older. ( 1 ) Important limitation: • Not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm. ( 1 )

=== DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ===
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For oral inhalation only. ( 2.1 ) • Starting dosage is based on prior asthma therapy and disease severity. ( 2.2 ) • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 12 years and older: 100 mcg twice daily up to a maximum recommended dosage of 1,000 mcg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 to 11 years: 50 mcg twice daily up to a maximum recommended dosage of 100 mcg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Administration Information FLOVENT DISKUS should be administered by the orally inhaled route in patients aged 4 years and older. After inhalation, the patient should rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older The starting dosage is based on previous asthma therapy and asthma severity, including consideration of patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation. The recommended starting dosage for patients aged 12 years and older who are not on an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) is 100 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. For other patients, and for patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, higher dosages may provide additional asthma control. The maximum recommended dosage for patients aged 12 years and older is 1,000 mcg twice daily. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years The starting dosage is based on previous asthma therapy and asthma severity, including consideration of patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation. For patients aged 4 to 11 years not on an ICS, the recommended starting dosage is 50 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. For other patients, and for patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, increasing the dosage to 100 mcg twice daily may provide additional asthma control. The maximum recommended dosage for patients aged 4 to 11 years is 100 mcg twice daily. General Dosing Recommendations If symptoms arise between doses, an inhaled short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be used for immediate relief. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. Maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 to 2 weeks or longer after starting treatment. If a dosage regimen fails to provide adequate control of asthma, the therapeutic regimen should be re-evaluated and additional therapeutic options, e.g., replacing the current strength with a higher strength, initiating an ICS and long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA) combination product, or initiating oral corticosteroids, should be considered. After asthma stability has been achieved, titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects.

=== CONTRAINDICATIONS ===
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of FLOVENT DISKUS is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Adverse Reactions (6.2), Description (11)] • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma requiring intensive measures. ( 4 ) • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate. ( 4 )

=== ADVERSE REACTIONS ===
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] • Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] • Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] • Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] • Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >3%) include upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, throat irritation, sinusitis, rhinitis, oral candidiasis, nausea and vomiting, gastrointestinal discomfort, fever, cough, bronchitis, and headache. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The incidence of common adverse reactions in Table 1 is based upon 7 placebo-controlled U.S. clinical trials in which 1,176 pediatric, adolescent, and adult subjects (466 females and 710 males) previously treated with as-needed bronchodilators and/or ICS were treated twice daily for up to 12 weeks with FLOVENT DISKUS (doses of 50 to 500 mcg) or placebo. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with FLOVENT DISKUS with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects with Asthma Adverse Event FLOVENT DISKUS 50 mcg Twice Daily (n = 178) % FLOVENT DISKUS 100 mcg Twice Daily (n = 305) % FLOVENT DISKUS 250 mcg Twice Daily (n = 86) % FLOVENT DISKUS 500 mcg Twice Daily (n = 64) % Placebo (n = 543) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 20 18 21 14 16 Throat irritation 13 13 3 22 8 Sinusitis/sinus infection 9 10 6 6 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 5 5 0 5 3 Rhinitis 4 3 1 2 2 Oral candidiasis <1 9 6 5 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea and vomiting 8 4 1 2 4 Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 4 3 2 2 3 Viral gastrointestinal infection 4 3 3 5 1 Non-site specific Fever 7 7 1 2 4 Viral infection 2 2 0 5 2 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infection 4 5 1 2 4 Cough 3 5 1 5 4 Bronchitis 2 3 0 8 1 Neurological Headache 12 12 2 14 7 Musculoskeletal and trauma Muscle injury 2 0 1 5 1 Musculoskeletal pain 4 3 2 5 2 Injury 2 <1 0 5 <1 Table 1 includes all events (whether considered drug-related or nondrug-related by the investigator) that occurred at a rate of over 3% in any of the groups treated with FLOVENT DISKUS and were more common than in the placebo group. Less than 2% of subjects discontinued from the trials because of adverse reactions. The average duration of exposure was 73 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 56 days in the placebo group. Additional Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with asthma treated with FLOVENT DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: palpitations; soft tissue injuries; contusions and hematomas; wounds and lacerations; burns; poisoning and toxicity; pressure-induced disorders; hoarseness/dysphonia; epistaxis; ear, nose, throat, and tonsil signs and symptoms; ear, nose, and throat polyps; allergic ear, nose, and throat disorders; throat constriction; fluid disturbances; weight gain; appetite disturbances; keratitis and conjunctivitis; blepharoconjunctivitis; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; dental discomfort and pain; oral erythema and rashes; mouth and tongue disorders; oral discomfort and pain; tooth decay; cholecystitis; arthralgia and articular rheumatism; muscle cramps and spasms; musculoskeletal inflammation; dizziness; sleep disorders; migraines; paralysis of cranial nerves; edema and swelling; bacterial infections; fungal infections; mobility disorders; mood disorders; bacterial reproductive infections; photodermatitis; dermatitis and dermatosis; viral skin infections; eczema; pruritus; acne and folliculitis; urinary infections. Three (3) of the 7 placebo-controlled U.S. clinical trials were pediatric trials. A total of 592 subjects aged 4 to 11 years were treated with FLOVENT DISKUS (dosages of 50 or 100 mcg twice daily) or placebo; an additional 174 subjects aged 4 to 11 years received FLOVENT ROTADISK (fluticasone propionate inhalation powder) at the same doses. There were no clinically relevant differences in the pattern or severity of adverse events in children compared with those reported in adults. In the first 16 weeks of a 52-week clinical trial in adult subjects with asthma who previously required oral corticosteroids (daily doses of 5 to 40 mg oral prednisone), the effects of FLOVENT DISKUS 500 mcg twice daily (n = 41) and 1,000 mcg twice daily (n = 36) were compared with placebo (n = 34) for the frequency of reported adverse events. The average duration of exposure for subjects taking FLOVENT DISKUS was 105 days compared with 75 days for placebo. Adverse events, whether or not considered drug related by the investigators, reported in more than 5 subjects in the group taking FLOVENT DISKUS and that occurred more frequently with FLOVENT DISKUS than with placebo are shown below (percent FLOVENT DISKUS and percent placebo). Ear, Nose, and Throat: Hoarseness/dysphonia (9% and 0%), nasal congestion/blockage (16% and 0%), oral candidiasis (31% and 21%), rhinitis (13% and 9%), sinusitis/sinus infection (33% and 12%), throat irritation (10% and 9%), and upper respiratory tract infection (31% and 24%). Gastrointestinal: Nausea and vomiting (9% and 0%). Lower Respiratory: Cough (9% and 3%) and viral respiratory infections (9% and 6%). Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia and articular rheumatism (17% and 3%) and muscle pain (12% and 0%). Non-Site Specific: Malaise and fatigue (16% and 9%) and pain (10% and 3%). Skin: Pruritus (6% and 0%) and skin rashes (8% and 3%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Ear, Nose, and Throat Aphonia, facial and oropharyngeal edema, and throat soreness. Endocrine and Metabolic Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hyperglycemia, and osteoporosis. Eye Cataracts. Immune System Disorders Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, rash, angioedema, and bronchospasm, have been reported. Anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy have been reported. Infections and Infestations Esophageal candidiasis. Psychiatry Agitation, aggression, anxiety, depression, and restlessness. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Respiratory Asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, chest tightness, dyspnea, immediate bronchospasm, pneumonia, and wheeze. Skin Contusions and ecchymoses.

=== DRUG INTERACTIONS ===
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.

=== HOW SUPPLIED ===
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING FLOVENT DISKUS 50 mcg is supplied as a disposable orange plastic inhaler containing a foil blister strip with 60 blisters. The inhaler is packaged in a plastic-coated, moisture-protective foil pouch (NDC 0173-0600-02). FLOVENT DISKUS 100 mcg is supplied as a disposable orange plastic inhaler containing a foil blister strip with 60 blisters. The inhaler is packaged in a plastic-coated, moisture-protective foil pouch (NDC 0173-0602-02). FLOVENT DISKUS 250 mcg is supplied as a disposable orange plastic inhaler containing a foil blister strip with 60 blisters. The inhaler is packaged in a plastic-coated, moisture-protective foil pouch (NDC 0173-0601-02). Store at room temperature between 68°F and 77°F (20°C and 25°C); excursions permitted from 59°F to 86°F (15°C to 30°C) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Store in a dry place away from direct heat or sunlight. Keep out of reach of children. FLOVENT DISKUS should be stored inside the unopened moisture-protective foil pouch and only removed from the pouch immediately before initial use. Discard FLOVENT DISKUS 6 weeks (50-mcg strength) or 2 months (100- and 250-mcg strengths) after opening the foil pouch or when the counter reads “0” (after all blisters have been used), whichever comes first. The inhaler is not reusable. Do not attempt to take the inhaler apart.